docs: Release Mumble 1.5.901 (#243)
mumble-voip/mumble-www: hugo/content/blog/2026-05-17-mumble-1-5-901.md

---
title: Mumble 1.5.901
author: Hartmnt
date: 2026-05-17
categories:
  - Release
---

Today we release the third patch release in the Mumble 1.5.x series. We have fixed a long standing
issue with analog input devices such as racing wheels causing Mumble to hang!

You can download the new version from our [**Downloads page**]({{< relref "/downloads" >}}) or the
[**GitHub release page**](https://github.com/mumble-voip/mumble/releases/tag/v1.5.901) or from within your Windows client or software package
management system.

<!--more-->

## Changelog

> This is the full changelog for this release (changes relative to the Mumble 1.5.857 release).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the full changelog for this release (changes since the Mumble 1.5.857 release).
```

```suggestion
This is the full changelog for this release (changes compared to Mumble version 1.5.857).
```

```suggestion
This is the full list of changes since Mumble version 1.5.857.
```

I like the last suggestion because its non-technical (evades 'changelog' term) and is more concise.

### Client

- Fixed: Crash when invalid varint encodings are parsed ({{< issue 7148 >}})
- Fixed: Don't send placeholder when using paste+send, if window is out-of-focus ({{< issue 7121 >}})

> - Fixed: Ensure we never write to invalid socket ({{< issue 7168 >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed: Ensure we never write to an invalid socket ({{< issue 7168 >}})
```

- Fixed: Explicitly request accessibility permissions on macOS ({{< issue 7041 >}})
- Fixed: Hangs from input events caused by analog input devices such as racing wheels ({{< issue 6696 >}})
- Fixed: Opus related out-of-bounds memory access **CVE-2025-71264** ({{< issue 7033 >}})

### Server

- Fixed: Crash when invalid varint encodings are parsed ({{< issue 7148 >}})

> - Fixed: Ensure we never write to invalid socket ({{< issue 7168 >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed: Ensure we never write to an invalid socket ({{< issue 7168 >}})
```

I guess we list it under both client and server?
